---
layout:     post
title:      Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Link(TRILL)
date:       2017-08-07
summary:    Networking
categories: Computer Networks
---

Some basic knowledge


## **Link State Protocol**
- Routing protocol used in packet switching ex includes: OSPF, IS-IS.
- **Basic idea**:
  - Every node constructs a map of connectivity to the network in terms of a graph, which shows that which nodes are connected to other.
  - Each node then computes best logical path (using Dijkstra) from it to the destination.
  - These best path then form the node’s routing table

## **Intermediate System to Intermediate System (IS-IS)**
- This routing protocol was designed for routing packets at Layer 2 very similar to OSFP at Layer 3.
- Both of them uses Dijkstra to compute the shortest path and can use multicast to discover neighboring routers.
- IS-IS routers build a topological representation of the network. This map indicates the subnets which each IS-IS router can reach, and the lowest-cost (shortest) path to a subnet is used to forward traffic.


## **TRILL**

It is implemented by devices called RBridges which a link-state protocol among themselves. Some benefits of TRILL:

- It runs directly over Layer 2 as it uses IS-IS so no configuration is required like IP Address
- It is easy to extend the protocol by adding an extra field value in the header for carrying TRILL information

**Mitigation of Loops**

- Forward packets on a header with hop count.
- RBridges also specify the next hop RBridge as the frame destination when forwarding unicast frames across a shared-media link, which avoids spawning additional copies of frames during a temporary loop
- Also perform reverse path forwarding check on multi destination frames to avoid loops

